Signals (#2)
temporalio/edu-interacting-with-workflows-typescript: signaling-your-workflows/sending-signals.md

# How to Send Signals

We will now explore how to send Signals from a Temporal Client, from the Command-line Interface, and from within a Temporal Workflow.

## Send a Signal from a Temporal Client

Earlier in this chapter, you learned that Signals enable a Workflow Execution to react to external events. For example, a web application might use a Temporal Client to signal a Workflow Execution in response to a user clicking a link or button.

> Now that we have covered some scenarios to send a Signal from a Client, let's take a look at an example of how to do so:

Reviewer: Not sure which "scenarios" this is about (plural?), but I really don't think this transition is useful.

```suggestion
Let's take a look at an example of how to do so:
```

```typescript
import { Client } from "@temporalio/client";
import { joinSignal } from "./workflows";

const client = new Client();

const handle = client.workflow.getHandle("workflow-id-123");

await handle.signal(joinSignal, { userId: "user-1", groupId: "group-1" });
```

> Similarly to the `setHandler` method we defined in the previous chapter, we use the [`getHandle`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/client.ScheduleClient#gethandle) method to obtain a reference, or a "handle", to a specific Workflow instance. In the above example, the `handle` variable is now set to the Workflow instance of `workflow-id-123`, defined in the Client when we start the Workflow.

Reviewer: There is no relationship between `setHandler` and `getHandle`. Also, wrong API doc URL.

```suggestion
The [`getHandle`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/client.WorkflowClient#gethandle) method is used to obtain a reference, or a "handle", to a specific Workflow Execution, which will be used to interract with that Workflow. In the above example, the `handle` variable is now set to the Workflow instance of `workflow-id-123`, defined in the Client when we start the Workflow.
```

The Client then sends the `joinSignal` Signal to `workflow-id-123` which includes data (`userId` and `groupId`) passed to the Workflow's Signal handler.

> ![Signal Sent from Client](https://learn.temporal.io/courses/interacting-with-workflows/typescript/signaling-your-workflows/signal-from-client.png "Signal Sent from Client")

Reviewer: Why this image? It doesn't seem useful in this discussion, and it introduces a notion that is not present in the text (i.e. the relation between a signal and a workflow task).

## Send a Signal with the Temporal CLI

> You can also use the `temporal` CLI to send a Signal to a Workflow Execution by Workflow ID or List Filter. Using the Command line to send a Signal is an alternative to writing code for sending a Signal, and is a convenient way of manually interacting with a Workflow Execution when needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use the `temporal` CLI to send a Signal to a Workflow Execution identified by its Workflow ID, or to multiple Workflow Executions, using a List Filter. Using the Command line to send a Signal is an alternative to writing code for sending a Signal, and is a convenient way of manually interacting with a Workflow Execution when needed.
```

To send a Signal with the Temporal CLI, you use the `temporal workflow signal` command.

Let's say that we have a Workflow - with a `helloSignal` Workflow ID - and we want to update its greeting from the string `Hello` to the string `Bye` using the `updateGreeting` Signal. Our command will look like this:

```bash
$ temporal workflow signal \
  --workflow-id="helloSignal" \
  --name="updateGreeting" \

>   --input=\"Bye\"

Reviewer: Should make it clear that `--input` expects a JSON encoded value (hence the quoted quotes)?

```

Upon successful execution, the CLI confirms with `Signal workflow succeeded`. You will then be able to see this `WorkflowExecutionSignaled` Event added in the Event History. The Event type contains the Signal name - `updateGreeting`, as well as a Signal payload, which is the string `Bye`.

The Temporal CLI offers various options to customize the Signal command. You can find a list of options to change the command's behavior [here](https://docs.temporal.io/cli/workflow#signal).

## Send a Signal from Within a Workflow

Workflows can also send Signals to other Workflows. This is known as an _External Signal_.

In complex systems where multiple Workflows need to be coordinated (like in supply chain management), one Workflow can send Signals to others to synchronize tasks or share data. For example, a quality assurance Workflow signaling a manufacturing Workflow to halt production if a quality check fails.

> In order to do send an External Signal, we need to use the [`getExternalWorkflowHandle`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/namespaces/workflow#getexternalworkflowhandle) method. This method retrieves a handle of another Workflow using its Workflow ID, which can be passed down from the Client. This example uses this method to send a Signal from within a Workflow.

Reviewer: I don't understand the reference to "the Client" in this paragraph. That seems wrong.

```suggestion
In order to do send an External Signal, we need to use the [`getExternalWorkflowHandle`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/namespaces/workflow#getexternalworkflowhandle) method. This method retrieves a handle of another Workflow using its Workflow ID. This example uses this method to send a Signal from within a Workflow.
```

> It's important to remember that Workflows in Temporal must remain deterministic. One aspect of deterministic Workflows means not directly making network calls from the Workflow. This means that developers cannot use a Temporal Client directly within the Workflow code to send Signals or start other Workflows. Instead, to communicate between Workflows, we use `getExternalWorkflowHandle` to both ensure that Workflows remain deterministic and also that these interactions are recorded as Events in the Workflow's Event History. 

Reviewer: This feels redundant with the previous paragraph. I mean, the previous paragraph says "to do this, we need to use getExternalWorkflowHandle", and this one says "due to determinism, we can't use Client, so to do this, we need to use getExternalWorkflowHandle".

Consider merging.

```typescript
import { getExternalWorkflowHandle } from "@temporalio/workflow";
import { joinSignal } from "./other-workflow";

export async function yourWorkflowThatSignals() {
  const handle = getExternalWorkflowHandle("workflow-id-123");

>   await handle.signal(joinSignal, { userId: "user-1", groupId: "group-1" });

Reviewer: Do we discuss error handling somewhere? We should really mention that `getExternalWorkflowHandle` (and same for `getHandle` in earlier examples) doesn't check either the target workflow exists. That is, in this sample, if there is no running workflow whose id is `workflow-id-123`, it is the `signal` call that will fail, not `getExternalWorkflowHandle`. This surprise many users.

# How to Send Signals

> In this chapter, we will explore how to send Signals from a Temporal Client, from within a Temporal Workflow, and from the Command-Line Interface.

Author: Removed and changed to 'we will now explore...'

> Let's first look at a few example scenarios of when a developer would choose to send a Signal from a Client and then from within Workflows.

Author: added

> Reasons to send a Signal from a Client:

Author: Added

- **Updating Workflows with External Events**: If a Workflow needs to be updated based on events occuring outside the Temporal application (like a user clicked on a button in a web application), this can send a Signal to the Workflow.
- **Modifying Workflow Executions based on real-time data**: In scenarios where Workflows depend on real-time data (e.g., stock prices or weather updates), Clients can send Signals to update the Workflow as new data becomes available.
- **User-Driven Decisions**: In decision-based Workflows where user input is required (like approving a transaction or selecting an option), the Client can send the user's choice to the Workflow via a Signal.
- **Integrating with Third-Party Services**: If a Workflow requires data from third-party services (like payment gateways or social media platforms), a Client application can retrieve this data and send it to the Workflow using Signals.

> Reasons to send a Signal from Within a Workflow:

Author: Added

> - **Coordinating Multiple Workflows**: In complex systems where multiple Workflows need to be coordinated (like in supply chain management), one Workflow can send Signals to others to synchronize tasks or share data. For example, a quality assurance Workflow signaling a manufacturing Workflow to halt production if a quality check fails.

Author: Removed

## Send a Signal from a Temporal Client

Now that we have covered some scenarios to send a Signal from a Client, let's take a look at an example of how to do so:

```typescript
import { Client } from "@temporalio/client";
import { joinSignal } from "./workflows";

const client = new Client();

const handle = client.workflow.getHandle("workflow-id-123");

await handle.signal(joinSignal, { userId: "user-1", groupId: "group-1" });
```

> Similarly to the `setHandler` method we defined in the previous chapter, we use the [`getHandle`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/client.ScheduleClient#gethandle) method to obtain a reference, or a "handle", to a specific Workflow instance. In the above example, the `handle` variable is now set to the Workflow instance of `workflow-id-123`.

Author: Added

The Client then sends the `joinSignal` Signal to `workflow-id-123` which includes data (`userId` and `groupId`) passed to the Workflow's Signal handler.

![Signal Sent from Client](https://learn.temporal.io/courses/interacting-with-workflows/typescript/signaling-your-workflows/signal-from-client.png "Signal Sent from Client")

## Send a Signal from Within a Workflow

Workflows can also send Signals to other Workflows. This is known as an _External Signal_ and is useful for coordinating between multiple Workflow Executions.

> In order to do so, we need to use the [`getExternalWorkflowHandle`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/namespaces/workflow#getexternalworkflowhandle) method. This method retrieves a handle of another Workflow using its Workflow ID. This example uses this method to send a Signal from within a Workflow:

Author: Added

```typescript
import { getExternalWorkflowHandle } from "@temporalio/workflow";
import { joinSignal } from "./other-workflow";

export async function yourWorkflowThatSignals() {
  const handle = getExternalWorkflowHandle("workflow-id-123");
  await handle.signal(joinSignal, { userId: "user-1", groupId: "group-1" });
}
```

## Send a Signal with the Temporal CLI

You can also use the `temporal` CLI to send a Signal to a Workflow Execution by Workflow ID or List Filter. To send a Signal with the Temporal CLI, you use the `temporal workflow signal` command.

> Let's say that we have a Workflow - with a `helloSignal` Workflow ID - and we want to update its greeting from `Hello` to `Bye` using the `updateGreeting` Signal. Our command will look like this:

Reviewer 2: Rather than using a new example here, I'd reuse the `join` example from earlier -- especially because we don't see the `join` signal type much in the typescript code after the `joinSignal` constant is defined, whereas I'm assuming with the CLI you'd call the signal type directly, and this would help reinforce it.

Author: So the reason I changed this example to use a string input is because of the problem of sending JSON as input with the temporal CLI. I have filed this bug already (didn't think I should include that this was an issue in the course).

Reviewer 2: Right, that makes sense? Do we need to launch this course before that bug is fixed?

```bash
$ temporal workflow signal \
  --workflow-id="helloSignal" \
  --name="updateGreeting" \

>   --input=\"Bye\"

Author: Clarified!

```

Upon successful execution, the CLI confirms with `Signal workflow succeeded`.

> 

Author: added

> # How to Send Signals

Author: I agree that the example of sending signal from Client and CLI should use the same example. However, I am waiting to fix the example in the CLI to use the `joinSignal` example when the bug of sending an input with JSON on the CLI is fixed. Once this is done and I can verify the fix, I will change the example!
